.TH NEOSPHERE 1 "2023-12-22" "neoSphere 5.9.2" "Sphere: the JavaScript game platform"
.SH NAME
neosphere \- lightweight JavaScript-powered game engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.TP 11
.B neosphere
[\fB\-\-fullscreen\fR | \fB\-\-windowed\fR]
[\fB\-\-frameskip \fImaxframes\fR]
.RI [ spkfile ]
.RI [ arguments ]
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
neoSphere is a general-purpose game engine which uses JavaScript for game coding.
It is a mostly compatible reimplementation of the Sphere game engine developed by Chad Austin (it is not a fork), boasting better performance and several new features and enhancements.
.P
When run with no arguments, neoSphere will launch with a menu allowing you to choose from a list of installed Sphere games.
You can also pass the name of an
.I .spk
(Sphere game PacKage) file on the command line to launch that game directly.
.P
When developing a game,
.BR spherun (1)
should be used to launch the engine instead of
.BR neosphere (1).
This enables a number of features useful during game development, such as debugging using
.BR ssj (1)
and engine logging via the
.B \-\-verbose
option.
.SH OPTIONS
.B Important note:
.br
Unrecognized options to the
.BR neophere (1)
command will be silently ignored.
.P
.IP \fB\-\-fullscreen
Starts neoSphere in fullscreen mode. This is the default when starting the engine using the
.BR neosphere (1)
command.
.IP \fB\-\-windowed
Starts neoSphere in windowed mode.
.IP \fB\-\-frameskip
neoSphere skips rendering frames when it can't keep up with a game's requested framerate.
To ensure games remain playable, no more than 5 consecutive frames will be skipped by default.
This option may be used to change the maximum to deal with slow machines; note, however, that games can override the value you provide.
.SH BUGS
Report any bugs found in neoSphere or the Sphere GDK tools to:
.br
.B Bruce Pascoe <fatcerberus@icloud.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR spherun (1),
.BR cell (1),
.BR ssj (1)
