.TH SPHERUN 1 "xxxx-xx-xx" "neoSphere 5.9.1+" "Sphere: the JavaScript game platform"
.SH NAME
spherun \- run a Sphere game in a dev-friendly environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.na
.TP 8
.B spherun
.RB [ \-\-debug | \-\-profile ]
.RB [ \-\-retro ]
.RB [ \-\-fullscreen | \-\-windowed ]
.RB [ \-\-frameskip\~\fImaxframes\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose\~\fIlevel\fP ]
.I path
.RI [ arguments ]
.ad
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
neoSphere is a general-purpose game engine which uses JavaScript for game coding, based on the Sphere engine developed by Chad Austin.
See
.BR neosphere (1)
for more information.

Typically, neoSphere is launched via the command
.BR neosphere (1).
When the engine is started that way, all debugging and logging features are disabled to maximize game performance.
.BR spherun (1)
is the preferred way to invoke the engine while developing a game.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-\-fullscreen
Start the engine in fullscreen mode. This option is ignored if
.B \-\-debug
is used (see below).
.IP \fB\-\-windowed
Start the engine in windowed mode. This is the default when the engine is started using the
.BR spherun (1)
command.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Instruct the engine to wait for the
.BR ssj (1)
debugger to attach before beginning game execution.
If no debugger attaches within 30 seconds, neoSphere will exit.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-profile
Enables full-performance JavaScript execution by disabling the single-step debugger.
Note that this comes at the cost of SSj support.
You will not be able to connect an SSj instance if you use this option.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-retro
Tells the engine to run in "retrograde mode", in which it will emulate the minimum API level required by the game as specified in its manifest.
In this mode, any functions, objects and properties which were added in later API levels are completely disabled, which can help you to find compatibility issues.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Set the engine's diagnostic verbosity level.
This lets you to see under the hood at the engine's internal operation, which can often illuminate bugs in your game's logic.
If this option is not given, neoSphere will only print its version header and whatever output is generated by the game being executed.
.IP \fB\-\-frameskip
Set the maximum number of consecutive frames to skip.
neoSphere skips rendering frames when it can't keep up with a game's requested framerate.
To ensure games remain playable, no more than 5 frames will be skipped by default.
Use this option to change the maximum; note that games can override the value you provide.
.IP \fB\-\-version
Show the version number of neoSphere along with the version numbers of any libraries it depends on.
.SH READ MORE
Complete API documentation for the Sphere game development platform has been installed in
.BR /usr/share/doc/sphere .
.SH BUGS
Report any bugs found in neoSphere or the Sphere GDK tools to:
.br
.I Bruce Pascoe <fatcerberus@icloud.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR neosphere (1),
.BR cell (1),
.BR ssj (1)